# STP, and Security

## STP Continued

### Review

Last lecture we discussed Spanning Tree Protocol (STP)

This lecture we will discuss configuration of STP

Recall the link costs

Bandwidth   | Cost
-----------:|------
10 Mb/s     | 100
100 Mb/s    | 19
1000 Mb/s   | 4
10,000 Mb/s | 2



### Configuration of STP

`sh spanning-tree vlan 1` display information about the switch's role, id,
and protocol being run. For example, if PVST+ is being run, it we be listed
in the output.

Recall that root bridges have **no** blocked ports.

### STP Failure

If there is a loop due to a port not blocking as it should, STP has failed.

### PortFast

* Cisco protocol
* Can help switch ports to the forwarding state faster (usual expected time is
50 seconds, but PortFast is faster)

### Etherchannel

* PAgP/LACP, Cisco or IEEE protocol
* This adds port channels - multiple links between switches add redundancy
* This technique can stop STP failure

## Security

The main idea for this chapter is configuring access control lists (ACLs) 

Three types of ACL

* Standard
  * Source IP address used as a condition
* Extended
  * Layer 3 (destination IP address to and layer 4 headers (ports))
* Named
  * These are either standard or extended lists, but are used differently than
  the others

For ACLs, there is a rule: "closest to destination." The port closest to the 
destination must have the ACL configured.

The standard IP access list numbers are 1-99, the expanded range is 1300-1999.
This will force you to only be able to use the source IP address to filter.

To match any value for an octet when specifying an IP address, use 255 for it.

The wildcard is the complement of the subnet mask of a subnet being allowed

The `access-list <number> <deny|permit> <ip> <wildcard>` command can be used
to configure ACLs. It is used in privileged config mode. Instead of `<ip> <wildcard>`,
`any` may be used to match any IP address (like `0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255`).

Once the access list is configured, interfaces may be configured. In privileged
interface config mode, run `ip access-group <number> <in|out>`.

**Important** - All ACLs are deny-by-default. Unless `permit any` is run at the
end of configuration, all traffic will be denied unless explicitly allowed.

#### Device Management and Security

Mitigating threats at the access layer is the topic of this section

The Cisco hierarchical model has 3 layers:

* Core (Backbone)
* Distribution (Routing, filtering, LAN)
* Access (Switches/hosts)

#### DHCP Snooping

Switch interfaces are configured as trusted and untrusted

Hosts are on untrusted interfaces, managed hosts (DHCP servers, backbone) are
on trusted interfaces

#### Dynamic ARP Inspection (DAI)

Used with DHCP snooping

Avoids ARP cache poisoning when DHCP is being used

#### Proxy ARP

Allows a host to learn the MAC address of another router than the one
responding

Useful for failover routers, allows a host to use a different router if one
goes down

#### First Hop Redundancy Protocols (FHRP)

Allows multiple routers to appear as a single logical router to hosts

Provides redundancy, automatic failover

Each router has its own IP address and MAC address, but responds to ARP queries
for the virtual IP address with the virtual MAC address

Any router can receive frames sent to the virtual MAC address on its interfaces
configured to do so. There is only one **active** router, but any router
configured can handle traffic if the active router fails

The protocol determines which router is selected to be active

